
Fichier : LICENCES


LICENCES D'UTILISATION ET MENTIONS DE COPYRIGHT

Voici des informations sur les copyright des logiciels fournis avec le système 0.

Ce fichier n'est présent qu'à titre informatif et peut ne pas être à jour.
Pour consulter des informations à jour sur les copyrights et les licences
d'utilisation, consultez la documentation des logiciels fournis : 

	/usr/doc/(nom du logiciel)-(numéro de version)

... Ainsi que le code source des logiciels fournis ou bien leur site
Web officiel respectif.

Si vous trouvez certains manquements aux exigences des licences d'utilisation, 
contactez appzer0@free.fr afin d'y remédier.

---

CONTRAT DE LICENCE DE LOGICIEL LIBRE CeCILL


    Avertissement

Ce contrat est une licence de logiciel libre issue d'une concertation
entre ses auteurs afin que le respect de deux grands principes préside à
sa rédaction:

    * d'une part, le respect des principes de diffusion des logiciels
      libres: accès au code source, droits étendus conférés aux
      utilisateurs,
    * d'autre part, la désignation d'un droit applicable, le droit
      français, auquel elle est conforme, tant au regard du droit de la
      responsabilité civile que du droit de la propriété intellectuelle
      et de la protection qu'il offre aux auteurs et titulaires des
      droits patrimoniaux sur un logiciel.

Les auteurs de la licence CeCILL (pour Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel]
L[ibre]) sont:

Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique - CEA, établissement public de
recherche à caractère scientifique, technique et industriel, dont le
siège est situé 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le Ponant D, 75015 Paris.

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, établissement
public à caractère scientifique et technologique, dont le siège est
situé 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16.

Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -
INRIA, établissement public à caractère scientifique et technologique,
dont le siège est situé Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP 105, 78153
Le Chesnay cedex.


    Préambule

Ce contrat est une licence de logiciel libre dont l'objectif est de
conférer aux utilisateurs la liberté de modification et de
redistribution du logiciel régi par cette licence dans le cadre d'un
modèle de diffusion en logiciel libre.

L'exercice de ces libertés est assorti de certains devoirs à la charge
des utilisateurs afin de préserver ce statut au cours des
redistributions ultérieures.

L'accessibilité au code source et les droits de copie, de modification
et de redistribution qui en découlent ont pour contrepartie de n'offrir
aux utilisateurs qu'une garantie limitée et de ne faire peser sur
l'auteur du logiciel, le titulaire des droits patrimoniaux et les
concédants successifs qu'une responsabilité restreinte.

A cet égard l'attention de l'utilisateur est attirée sur les risques
associés au chargement, à l'utilisation, à la modification et/ou au
développement et à la reproduction du logiciel par l'utilisateur étant
donné sa spécificité de logiciel libre, qui peut le rendre complexe à
manipuler et qui le réserve donc à des développeurs ou des
professionnels avertis possédant des connaissances informatiques
approfondies. Les utilisateurs sont donc invités à charger et tester
l'adéquation du logiciel à leurs besoins dans des conditions permettant
d'assurer la sécurité de leurs systèmes et/ou de leurs données et, plus
généralement, à l'utiliser et l'exploiter dans les mêmes conditions de
sécurité. Ce contrat peut être reproduit et diffusé librement, sous
réserve de le conserver en l'état, sans ajout ni suppression de clauses.

Ce contrat est susceptible de s'appliquer à tout logiciel dont le
titulaire des droits patrimoniaux décide de soumettre l'exploitation aux
dispositions qu'il contient.


    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS

Dans ce contrat, les termes suivants, lorsqu'ils seront écrits avec une
lettre capitale, auront la signification suivante:

Contrat: désigne le présent contrat de licence, ses éventuelles versions
postérieures et annexes.

Logiciel: désigne le logiciel sous sa forme de Code Objet et/ou de Code
Source et le cas échéant sa documentation, dans leur état au moment de
l'acceptation du Contrat par le Licencié.

Logiciel Initial: désigne le Logiciel sous sa forme de Code Source et
éventuellement de Code Objet et le cas échéant sa documentation, dans
leur état au moment de leur première diffusion sous les termes du Contrat.

Logiciel Modifié: désigne le Logiciel modifié par au moins une
Contribution.

Code Source: désigne l'ensemble des instructions et des lignes de
programme du Logiciel et auquel l'accès est nécessaire en vue de
modifier le Logiciel.

Code Objet: désigne les fichiers binaires issus de la compilation du
Code Source.

Titulaire: désigne le ou les détenteurs des droits patrimoniaux d'auteur
sur le Logiciel Initial.

Licencié: désigne le ou les utilisateurs du Logiciel ayant accepté le
Contrat.

Contributeur: désigne le Licencié auteur d'au moins une Contribution.

Concédant: désigne le Titulaire ou toute personne physique ou morale
distribuant le Logiciel sous le Contrat.

Contribution: désigne l'ensemble des modifications, corrections,
traductions, adaptations et/ou nouvelles fonctionnalités intégrées dans
le Logiciel par tout Contributeur, ainsi que tout Module Interne.

Module: désigne un ensemble de fichiers sources y compris leur
documentation qui permet de réaliser des fonctionnalités ou services
supplémentaires à ceux fournis par le Logiciel.

Module Externe: désigne tout Module, non dérivé du Logiciel, tel que ce
Module et le Logiciel s'exécutent dans des espaces d'adressage
différents, l'un appelant l'autre au moment de leur exécution.

Module Interne: désigne tout Module lié au Logiciel de telle sorte
qu'ils s'exécutent dans le même espace d'adressage.

GNU GPL: désigne la GNU General Public License dans sa version 2 ou
toute version ultérieure, telle que publiée par Free Software Foundation
Inc.

Parties: désigne collectivement le Licencié et le Concédant.

Ces termes s'entendent au singulier comme au pluriel.


    Article 2 - OBJET

Le Contrat a pour objet la concession par le Concédant au Licencié d'une
licence non exclusive, cessible et mondiale du Logiciel telle que
définie ci-après à l'article 5 pour toute la durée de protection des droits
portant sur ce Logiciel.


    Article 3 - ACCEPTATION

3.1 L'acceptation par le Licencié des termes du Contrat est réputée
acquise du fait du premier des faits suivants:

    * (i) le chargement du Logiciel par tout moyen notamment par
      téléchargement à partir d'un serveur distant ou par chargement à
      partir d'un support physique;
    * (ii) le premier exercice par le Licencié de l'un quelconque des
      droits concédés par le Contrat.

3.2 Un exemplaire du Contrat, contenant notamment un avertissement
relatif aux spécificités du Logiciel, à la restriction de garantie et à
la limitation à un usage par des utilisateurs expérimentés a été mis à
disposition du Licencié préalablement à son acceptation telle que
définie à l'article 3.1 ci dessus et le Licencié reconnaît en avoir pris
connaissance.


    Article 4 - ENTREE EN VIGUEUR ET DUREE


      4.1 ENTREE EN VIGUEUR

Le Contrat entre en vigueur à la date de son acceptation par le Licencié
telle que définie en 3.1.


      4.2 DUREE

Le Contrat produira ses effets pendant toute la durée légale de
protection des droits patrimoniaux portant sur le Logiciel.


    Article 5 - ETENDUE DES DROITS CONCEDES

Le Concédant concède au Licencié, qui accepte, les droits suivants sur
le Logiciel pour toutes destinations et pour la durée du Contrat dans
les conditions ci-après détaillées.

Par ailleurs, si le Concédant détient ou venait à détenir un ou
plusieurs brevets d'invention protégeant tout ou partie des
fonctionnalités du Logiciel ou de ses composants, il s'engage à ne pas
opposer les éventuels droits conférés par ces brevets aux Licenciés
successifs qui utiliseraient, exploiteraient ou modifieraient le
Logiciel. En cas de cession de ces brevets, le Concédant s'engage à
faire reprendre les obligations du présent alinéa aux cessionnaires.


      5.1 DROIT D'UTILISATION

Le Licencié est autorisé à utiliser le Logiciel, sans restriction quant
aux domaines d'application, étant ci-après précisé que cela comporte:

   1. la reproduction permanente ou provisoire du Logiciel en tout ou
      partie par tout moyen et sous toute forme.

   2. le chargement, l'affichage, l'exécution, ou le stockage du
      Logiciel sur tout support.

   3. la possibilité d'en observer, d'en étudier, ou d'en tester le
      fonctionnement afin de déterminer les idées et principes qui sont
      à la base de n'importe quel élément de ce Logiciel; et ceci,
      lorsque le Licencié effectue toute opération de chargement,
      d'affichage, d'exécution, de transmission ou de stockage du
      Logiciel qu'il est en droit d'effectuer en vertu du Contrat.


      5.2 DROIT D'APPORTER DES CONTRIBUTIONS

Le droit d'apporter des Contributions comporte le droit de traduire,
d'adapter, d'arranger ou d'apporter toute autre modification au Logiciel
et le droit de reproduire le logiciel en résultant.

Le Licencié est autorisé à apporter toute Contribution au Logiciel sous
réserve de mentionner, de façon explicite, son nom en tant qu'auteur de
cette Contribution et la date de création de celle-ci.


      5.3 DROIT DE DISTRIBUTION

Le droit de distribution comporte notamment le droit de diffuser, de
transmettre et de communiquer le Logiciel au public sur tout support et
par tout moyen ainsi que le droit de mettre sur le marché à titre
onéreux ou gratuit, un ou des exemplaires du Logiciel par tout procédé.

Le Licencié est autorisé à distribuer des copies du Logiciel, modifié ou
non, à des tiers dans les conditions ci-après détaillées.


        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION DU LOGICIEL SANS MODIFICATION

Le Licencié est autorisé à distribuer des copies conformes du Logiciel,
sous forme de Code Source ou de Code Objet, à condition que cette
distribution respecte les dispositions du Contrat dans leur totalité et
soit accompagnée:

   1. d'un exemplaire du Contrat,

   2. d'un avertissement relatif à la restriction de garantie et de
      responsabilité du Concédant telle que prévue aux articles 8
      et 9,

et que, dans le cas où seul le Code Objet du Logiciel est redistribué,
le Licencié permette aux futurs Licenciés d'accéder facilement au Code
Source complet du Logiciel en indiquant les modalités d'accès, étant
entendu que le coût additionnel d'acquisition du Code Source ne devra
pas excéder le simple coût de transfert des données.


        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION DU LOGICIEL MODIFIE

Lorsque le Licencié apporte une Contribution au Logiciel, les conditions
de distribution du Logiciel Modifié en résultant sont alors soumises à
l'intégralité des dispositions du Contrat.

Le Licencié est autorisé à distribuer le Logiciel Modifié, sous forme de
code source ou de code objet, à condition que cette distribution
respecte les dispositions du Contrat dans leur totalité et soit
accompagnée:

   1. d'un exemplaire du Contrat,

   2. d'un avertissement relatif à la restriction de garantie et de
      responsabilité du Concédant telle que prévue aux articles 8
      et 9,

et que, dans le cas où seul le code objet du Logiciel Modifié est
redistribué, le Licencié permette aux futurs Licenciés d'accéder
facilement au code source complet du Logiciel Modifié en indiquant les
modalités d'accès, étant entendu que le coût additionnel d'acquisition
du code source ne devra pas excéder le simple coût de transfert des données.


        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION DES MODULES EXTERNES

Lorsque le Licencié a développé un Module Externe les conditions du
Contrat ne s'appliquent pas à ce Module Externe, qui peut être distribué
sous un contrat de licence différent.


        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITE AVEC LA LICENCE GNU GPL

Le Licencié peut inclure un code soumis aux dispositions d'une des
versions de la licence GNU GPL dans le Logiciel modifié ou non et
distribuer l'ensemble sous les conditions de la même version de la
licence GNU GPL.

Le Licencié peut inclure le Logiciel modifié ou non dans un code soumis
aux dispositions d'une des versions de la licence GNU GPL et distribuer
l'ensemble sous les conditions de la même version de la licence GNU GPL.


    Article 6 - PROPRIETE INTELLECTUELLE


      6.1 SUR LE LOGICIEL INITIAL

Le Titulaire est détenteur des droits patrimoniaux sur le Logiciel
Initial. Toute utilisation du Logiciel Initial est soumise au respect
des conditions dans lesquelles le Titulaire a choisi de diffuser son
oeuvre et nul autre n'a la faculté de modifier les conditions de
diffusion de ce Logiciel Initial.

Le Titulaire s'engage à ce que le Logiciel Initial reste au moins régi
par le Contrat et ce, pour la durée visée à l'article 4.2.


      6.2 SUR LES CONTRIBUTIONS

Le Licencié qui a développé une Contribution est titulaire sur celle-ci
des droits de propriété intellectuelle dans les conditions définies par
la législation applicable.


      6.3 SUR LES MODULES EXTERNES

Le Licencié qui a développé un Module Externe est titulaire sur celui-ci
des droits de propriété intellectuelle dans les conditions définies par
la législation applicable et reste libre du choix du contrat régissant
sa diffusion.


      6.4 DISPOSITIONS COMMUNES

Le Licencié s'engage expressément:

   1. à ne pas supprimer ou modifier de quelque manière que ce soit les
      mentions de propriété intellectuelle apposées sur le Logiciel;

   2. à reproduire à l'identique lesdites mentions de propriété
      intellectuelle sur les copies du Logiciel modifié ou non.

Le Licencié s'engage à ne pas porter atteinte, directement ou
indirectement, aux droits de propriété intellectuelle du Titulaire et/ou
des Contributeurs sur le Logiciel et à prendre, le cas échéant, à
l'égard de son personnel toutes les mesures nécessaires pour assurer le
respect des dits droits de propriété intellectuelle du Titulaire et/ou
des Contributeurs.


    Article 7 - SERVICES ASSOCIES

7.1 Le Contrat n'oblige en aucun cas le Concédant à la réalisation de
prestations d'assistance technique ou de maintenance du Logiciel.

Cependant le Concédant reste libre de proposer ce type de services. Les
termes et conditions d'une telle assistance technique et/ou d'une telle
maintenance seront alors déterminés dans un acte séparé. Ces actes de
maintenance et/ou assistance technique n'engageront que la seule
responsabilité du Concédant qui les propose.

7.2 De même, tout Concédant est libre de proposer, sous sa seule
responsabilité, à ses licenciés une garantie, qui n'engagera que lui,
lors de la redistribution du Logiciel et/ou du Logiciel Modifié et ce,
dans les conditions qu'il souhaite. Cette garantie et les modalités
financières de son application feront l'objet d'un acte séparé entre le
Concédant et le Licencié.


    Article 8 - RESPONSABILITE

8.1 Sous réserve des dispositions de l'article 8.2, le Licencié a la 
faculté, sous réserve de prouver la faute du Concédant concerné, de
solliciter la réparation du préjudice direct qu'il subirait du fait du
Logiciel et dont il apportera la preuve.

8.2 La responsabilité du Concédant est limitée aux engagements pris en
application du Contrat et ne saurait être engagée en raison notamment:
(i) des dommages dus à l'inexécution, totale ou partielle, de ses
obligations par le Licencié, (ii) des dommages directs ou indirects
découlant de l'utilisation ou des performances du Logiciel subis par le
Licencié et (iii) plus généralement d'un quelconque dommage indirect. En
particulier, les Parties conviennent expressément que tout préjudice
financier ou commercial (par exemple perte de données, perte de
bénéfices, perte d'exploitation, perte de clientèle ou de commandes,
manque à gagner, trouble commercial quelconque) ou toute action dirigée
contre le Licencié par un tiers, constitue un dommage indirect et
n'ouvre pas droit à réparation par le Concédant.


    Article 9 - GARANTIE

9.1 Le Licencié reconnaît que l'état actuel des connaissances
scientifiques et techniques au moment de la mise en circulation du
Logiciel ne permet pas d'en tester et d'en vérifier toutes les
utilisations ni de détecter l'existence d'éventuels défauts. L'attention
du Licencié a été attirée sur ce point sur les risques associés au
chargement, à l'utilisation, la modification et/ou au développement et à
la reproduction du Logiciel qui sont réservés à des utilisateurs avertis.

Il relève de la responsabilité du Licencié de contrôler, par tous
moyens, l'adéquation du produit à ses besoins, son bon fonctionnement et
de s'assurer qu'il ne causera pas de dommages aux personnes et aux biens.

9.2 Le Concédant déclare de bonne foi être en droit de concéder
l'ensemble des droits attachés au Logiciel (comprenant notamment les
droits visés à l'article 5).

9.3 Le Licencié reconnaît que le Logiciel est fourni "en l'état" par le
Concédant sans autre garantie, expresse ou tacite, que celle prévue à
l'article 9.2 et notamment sans aucune garantie sur sa valeur commerciale, 
son caractère sécurisé, innovant ou pertinent.

En particulier, le Concédant ne garantit pas que le Logiciel est exempt
d'erreur, qu'il fonctionnera sans interruption, qu'il sera compatible
avec l'équipement du Licencié et sa configuration logicielle ni qu'il
remplira les besoins du Licencié.

9.4 Le Concédant ne garantit pas, de manière expresse ou tacite, que le
Logiciel ne porte pas atteinte à un quelconque droit de propriété
intellectuelle d'un tiers portant sur un brevet, un logiciel ou sur tout
autre droit de propriété. Ainsi, le Concédant exclut toute garantie au
profit du Licencié contre les actions en contrefaçon qui pourraient être
diligentées au titre de l'utilisation, de la modification, et de la
redistribution du Logiciel. Néanmoins, si de telles actions sont
exercées contre le Licencié, le Concédant lui apportera son aide
technique et juridique pour sa défense. Cette aide technique et
juridique est déterminée au cas par cas entre le Concédant concerné et
le Licencié dans le cadre d'un protocole d'accord. Le Concédant dégage
toute responsabilité quant à l'utilisation de la dénomination du
Logiciel par le Licencié. Aucune garantie n'est apportée quant à
l'existence de droits antérieurs sur le nom du Logiciel et sur
l'existence d'une marque.


    Article 10 - RESILIATION

10.1 En cas de manquement par le Licencié aux obligations mises à sa
charge par le Contrat, le Concédant pourra résilier de plein droit le
Contrat trente (30) jours après notification adressée au Licencié et
restée sans effet.

10.2 Le Licencié dont le Contrat est résilié n'est plus autorisé à
utiliser, modifier ou distribuer le Logiciel. Cependant, toutes les
licences qu'il aura concédées antérieurement à la résiliation du Contrat
resteront valides sous réserve qu'elles aient été effectuées en
conformité avec le Contrat.


    Article 11 - DISPOSITIONS DIVERSES


      11.1 CAUSE EXTERIEURE

Aucune des Parties ne sera responsable d'un retard ou d'une défaillance
d'exécution du Contrat qui serait dû à un cas de force majeure, un cas
fortuit ou une cause extérieure, telle que, notamment, le mauvais
fonctionnement ou les interruptions du réseau électrique ou de
télécommunication, la paralysie du réseau liée à une attaque
informatique, l'intervention des autorités gouvernementales, les
catastrophes naturelles, les dégâts des eaux, les tremblements de terre,
le feu, les explosions, les grèves et les conflits sociaux, l'état de
guerre...

11.2 Le fait, par l'une ou l'autre des Parties, d'omettre en une ou
plusieurs occasions de se prévaloir d'une ou plusieurs dispositions du
Contrat, ne pourra en aucun cas impliquer renonciation par la Partie
intéressée à s'en prévaloir ultérieurement.

11.3 Le Contrat annule et remplace toute convention antérieure, écrite
ou orale, entre les Parties sur le même objet et constitue l'accord
entier entre les Parties sur cet objet. Aucune addition ou modification
aux termes du Contrat n'aura d'effet à l'égard des Parties à moins
d'être faite par écrit et signée par leurs représentants dûment habilités.

11.4 Dans l'hypothèse où une ou plusieurs des dispositions du Contrat
s'avèrerait contraire à une loi ou à un texte applicable, existants ou
futurs, cette loi ou ce texte prévaudrait, et les Parties feraient les
amendements nécessaires pour se conformer à cette loi ou à ce texte.
Toutes les autres dispositions resteront en vigueur. De même, la
nullité, pour quelque raison que ce soit, d'une des dispositions du
Contrat ne saurait entraîner la nullité de l'ensemble du Contrat.


      11.5 LANGUE

Le Contrat est rédigé en langue française et en langue anglaise, ces
deux versions faisant également foi.


    Article 12 - NOUVELLES VERSIONS DU CONTRAT

12.1 Toute personne est autorisée à copier et distribuer des copies de
ce Contrat.

12.2 Afin d'en préserver la cohérence, le texte du Contrat est protégé
et ne peut être modifié que par les auteurs de la licence, lesquels se
réservent le droit de publier périodiquement des mises à jour ou de
nouvelles versions du Contrat, qui posséderont chacune un numéro
distinct. Ces versions ultérieures seront susceptibles de prendre en
compte de nouvelles problématiques rencontrées par les logiciels libres.

12.3 Tout Logiciel diffusé sous une version donnée du Contrat ne pourra
faire l'objet d'une diffusion ultérieure que sous la même version du
Contrat ou une version postérieure, sous réserve des dispositions de
l'article 5.3.4.


    Article 13 - LOI APPLICABLE ET COMPETENCE TERRITORIALE

13.1 Le Contrat est régi par la loi française. Les Parties conviennent
de tenter de régler à l'amiable les différends ou litiges qui
viendraient à se produire par suite ou à l'occasion du Contrat.

13.2 A défaut d'accord amiable dans un délai de deux (2) mois à compter
de leur survenance et sauf situation relevant d'une procédure d'urgence,
les différends ou litiges seront portés par la Partie la plus diligente
devant les Tribunaux compétents de Paris.


Version 2.0 du 2006-09-05.

---

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                          675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) 19yy  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19yy name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

---

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if
you modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to
avoid the special danger that patents applied to a free program could
make it effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that
patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
computer or modifying a private copy.  Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices"
to the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible
feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the
extent that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the
work under this License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If
the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work
for making modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source
form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that
is widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that
Major Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an
implementation is available to the public in source code form.  A
"Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system
(if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to
produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities.  However, it does not include the work's
System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free
programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities but
which are not part of the work.  For example, Corresponding Source
includes interface definition files associated with source files for
the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require,
such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users
can regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding
Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that
same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met.  This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program.  The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work.  This License acknowledges your
rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not
convey, without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains
in force.  You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose
of having them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you
with facilities for running those works, provided that you comply with
the terms of this License in conveying all material for which you do
not control copyright.  Those thus making or running the covered works
for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction
and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

  Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under
the conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10
makes it unnecessary.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article
11 of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or
similar laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such
measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to
the covered work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or
modification of the work as a means of enforcing, against the work's
users, your or third parties' legal rights to forbid circumvention of
technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the code;
keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey,
and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in the form of source code under the
terms of section 4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified
    it, and giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is
    released under this License and any conditions added under section
    7.  This requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to
    "keep intact all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this
    License to anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This
    License will therefore apply, along with any applicable section 7
    additional terms, to the whole of the work, and all its parts,
    regardless of how they are packaged.  This License gives no
    permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not
    invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
    Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive
    interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your
    work need not make them do so.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work,
and which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program,
in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation and its resulting copyright are not
used to limit the access or legal rights of the compilation's users
beyond what the individual works permit.  Inclusion of a covered work
in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

  6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms
of sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the
machine-readable Corresponding Source under the terms of this License,
in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the
    Corresponding Source fixed on a durable physical medium
    customarily used for software interchange.

    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a
    written offer, valid for at least three years and valid for as
    long as you offer spare parts or customer support for that product
    model, to give anyone who possesses the object code either (1) a
    copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
    product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical
    medium customarily used for software interchange, for a price no
    more than your reasonable cost of physically performing this
    conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the
    Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the
    written offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This
    alternative is allowed only occasionally and noncommercially, and
    only if you received the object code with such an offer, in accord
    with subsection 6b.

    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated
    place (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
    Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no
    further charge.  You need not require recipients to copy the
    Corresponding Source along with the object code.  If the place to
    copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding Source
    may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party)
    that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
    clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
    Corresponding Source.  Regardless of what server hosts the
    Corresponding Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is
    available for as long as needed to satisfy these requirements.

    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided
    you inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding
    Source of the work are being offered to the general public at no
    charge under subsection 6d.

  A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded
from the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be
included in conveying the object code work.

  A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family,
or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation
into a dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a consumer product,
doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.  For a particular
product received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a
typical or common use of that class of product, regardless of the status
of the particular user or of the way in which the particular user
actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the product.  A product
is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has substantial
commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses represent
the only significant mode of use of the product.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods,
procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to install
and execute modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from
a modified version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must
suffice to ensure that the continued functioning of the modified object
code is in no case prevented or interfered with solely because
modification has been made.

  If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as
part of a transaction in which the right of possession and use of the
User Product is transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a
fixed term (regardless of how the transaction is characterized), the
Corresponding Source conveyed under this section must be accompanied
by the Installation Information.  But this requirement does not apply
if neither you nor any third party retains the ability to install
modified object code on the User Product (for example, the work has
been installed in ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates
for a work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for
the User Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a
network may be denied when the modification itself materially and
adversely affects the operation of the network or violates the rules and
protocols for communication across the network.

  Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided,
in accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly
documented (and with an implementation available to the public in
source code form), and must require no special password or key for
unpacking, reading or copying.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this
License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall
be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law.  If additional permissions
apply only to part of the Program, that part may be used separately
under those permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by
this License without regard to the additional permissions.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option
remove any additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of
it.  (Additional permissions may be written to require their own
removal in certain cases when you modify the work.)  You may place
additional permissions on material, added by you to a covered work,
for which you have or can give appropriate copyright permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you
add to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of
that material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
    terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or
    author attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal
    Notices displayed by works containing it; or

    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
    requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
    reasonable ways as different from the original version; or

    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
    authors of the material; or

    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some
    trade names, trademarks, or service marks; or

    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that
    material by anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of
    it) with contractual assumptions of liability to the recipient, for
    any liability that these contractual assumptions directly impose on
    those licensors and authors.

  All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is
governed by this License along with a term that is a further
restriction, you may remove that term.  If a license document contains
a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying under this
License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does
not survive such relicensing or conveying.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you
must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the
additional terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating
where to find the applicable terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the
form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions;
the above requirements apply either way.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or
modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
this License (including any patent licenses granted under the third
paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your
license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a)
provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and
finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright
holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means
prior to 60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after
your receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same
material under section 10.

  9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or
run a copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work
occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission
to receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance.  However,
nothing other than this License grants you permission to propagate or
modify any covered work.  These actions infringe copyright if you do
not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or propagating a
covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so.

  10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and
propagate that work, subject to this License.  You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

  An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered
work results from an entity transaction, each party to that
transaction who receives a copy of the work also receives whatever
licenses to the work the party's predecessor in interest had or could
give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to possession of the
Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in interest, if
the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the
rights granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may
not impose a license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of
rights granted under this License, and you may not initiate litigation
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
any patent claim is infringed by making, using, selling, offering for
sale, or importing the Program or any portion of it.

  11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this
License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The
work thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims
owned or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or
hereafter acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted
by this License, of making, using, or selling its contributor version,
but do not include claims that would be infringed only as a
consequence of further modification of the contributor version.  For
purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of
this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free
patent license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and
propagate the contents of its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent
(such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to
sue for patent infringement).  To "grant" such a patent license to a
party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a
patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license,
and the Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone
to copy, free of charge and under the terms of this License, through a
publicly available network server or other readily accessible means,
then you must either (1) cause the Corresponding Source to be so
available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of the benefit of the
patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a manner
consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients.  "Knowingly relying" means you have
actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work
in a country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that
country that you have reason to believe are valid.

  If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or
arrangement, you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a
covered work, and grant a patent license to some of the parties
receiving the covered work authorizing them to use, propagate, modify
or convey a specific copy of the covered work, then the patent license
you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of the covered
work and works based on it.

  A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within
the scope of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is
conditioned on the non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are
specifically granted under this License.  You may not convey a covered
work if you are a party to an arrangement with a third party that is
in the business of distributing software, under which you make payment
to the third party based on the extent of your activity of conveying
the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory
patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work
conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily
for and in connection with specific products or compilations that
contain the covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement,
or that patent license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

  Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting
any implied license or other defenses to infringement that may
otherwise be available to you under applicable patent law.

  12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a
covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may
not convey it at all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you
to collect a royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey
the Program, the only way you could satisfy both those terms and this
License would be to refrain entirely from conveying the Program.

  13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have
permission to link or combine any covered work with a work licensed
under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License into a single
combined work, and to convey the resulting work.  The terms of this
License will continue to apply to the part which is the covered work,
but the special requirements of the GNU Affero General Public License,
section 13, concerning interaction through a network will apply to the
combination as such.

  14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the GNU General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
Program specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General
Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
option of following the terms and conditions either of that numbered
version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of the
GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published
by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future
versions of the GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's
public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you
to choose that version for the Program.

  Later license versions may give you additional or different
permissions.  However, no additional obligations are imposed on any
author or copyright holder as a result of your choosing to follow a
later version.

  15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM
IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD
PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

  17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided
above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates
an absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the
Program, unless a warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a
copy of the Program in return for a fee.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
state the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short
notice like this when it starts in an interactive mode:

    <program>  Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>
    This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, your program's commands
might be different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary.
For more information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program
into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you
may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with
the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.  But first, please read
<http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-lgpl.html>.

---

/* ====================================================================
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2007 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
 *
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
 *    acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 * ====================================================================
 *
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 */

---

The Slackware Installation scripts are:

 Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999  Patrick Volkerding, Moorhead, Minnesota, USA.
 Copyright 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005  Slackware Linux, Inc.  Concord, CA, USA.
 Copyright 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009  Patrick J. Volkerding, Sebeka, MN, USA.
 All rights reserved.

 Redistribution and use of this software, with or without modification, is
 permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 1. Redistributions of this software must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
  EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
  OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
  ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

----------------

Slackware is a registered trademark of Patrick Volkerding and Slackware Linux, Inc.
Permission to use the Slackware trademark to refer to the Slackware distribution
of Linux is hereby granted if the following conditions are met:

1.  In order to be called "Slackware", the distribution may not be altered
    from the way it appears on the central FTP site (ftp.slackware.com).  This
    is to protect the integrity, reliability, and reputation of the Slackware
    distribution.  (Note that moving entire directories like "source" or
    "contrib" to a second CD-ROM is allowable, but leaving them out and 
    distributing a single source-free disc is *not*, as indicated below)
    Anyone wishing to distribute an altered version must have the changes
    approved by volkerdi@slackware.com (i.e. certified to be reasonably
    bug-free).  If the changed distribution meets the required standards for
    quality, then written permission to use the Slackware trademark may be
    provided.

2.  All related source code must be included.  (This is also required by the
    GNU General Public License, and other licenses)

3.  Except by written permission from Slackware Linux, Inc., the Slackware
    trademark may not be used as (or as part of) a product name, company
    name, or registered domain name.

4.  Any approved use of "Slackware" must be followed by a circle-R, and must
    acknowledge our ownership of the mark.

Note that you can still redistribute a distribution that doesn't meet these
criteria, you just can't call it "Slackware".  Personally, I hate restricting
things in any way, but these restrictions are not designed to make life
difficult for anyone.  I just want to make sure that bugs are not added to
commercial redistributions of Slackware.  They have been in the past, and
the resulting requests for help have flooded my mailbox!  I'm just trying to
make sure that I have some recourse when something like that happens.

Any questions about this policy should be directed to:
    Patrick Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>

---

$File: LEGAL.NOTICE,v 1.15 2006/05/03 18:48:33 christos Exp $
Copyright (c) Ian F. Darwin 1986, 1987, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1994, 1995.
Software written by Ian F. Darwin and others;
maintained 1994- Christos Zoulas.

This software is not subject to any export provision of the United States
Department of Commerce, and may be exported to any country or planet.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice immediately at the beginning of the file, without modification,
   this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

---

                          MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE
                                Version 1.1

                              ---------------

1. Definitions.

     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the
     Covered Code available to a third party.

     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to
     the creation of Modifications.

     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications
     made by that particular Contributor.

     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case
     including portions thereof.

     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic
     transfer of data.

     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source
     Code.

     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit
     A.

     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

     1.8. "License" means this document.

     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a
     Modification is:
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.

          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or
          previous Modifications.

     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.

     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation,  method, process,
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.

     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available
     for no charge.

     1.12. "You" (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such
     entity.

2. Source Code License.

     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property
     claims:
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or
          as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the
          Original Code (or portions thereof).

          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes
          Original Code under the terms of this License.

          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)
          separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.

     2.2. Contributor Grant.
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license

          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or
          selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor
          Version (or portions of such combination).

          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of
          the Covered Code.

          (d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the
          Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;
          3)  for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of
          Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications made
          by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by
          that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

     3.1. Application of License.
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in
     Section 3.5.

     3.2. Availability of Source Code.
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.

     3.3. Description of Modifications.
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.

     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters
          (a) Third Party Claims.
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.

          (b) Contributor APIs.
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.

               (c)    Representations.
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by
          this License.

     3.5. Required Notices.
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source
     Code.  If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely
     to look for such a notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s)
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in
     Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership
     rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, and to
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such
     terms You offer.

     3.7. Larger Works.
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to
     understand it.

5. Application of this License.

     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.

6. Versions of the License.

     6.1. New Versions.
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version
     will be given a distinguishing version number.

     6.2. Effect of New Versions.
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to
     Covered Code created under this License.

     6.3. Derivative Works.
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of
     this License.)

7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

8. TERMINATION.

     8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License
     shall survive.

     8.2.  If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:

     (a)  such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to
     the Contributor Version against such Participant.  If within 60 days
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of
     the 60 day notice period specified above.

     (b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that
     Participant.

     8.3.  If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or
     license.

     8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder
     prior to termination shall survive termination.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those
     rights set forth herein.

11. MISCELLANEOUS.

     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this
     License.

12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.

     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as
     "Multiple-Licensed".  "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.

EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.

     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
     http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/

     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
     under the License.

     The Original Code is ______________________________________.

     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.

     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.

     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
     of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those
     above.  If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by
     deleting  the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and
     other provisions required by the [___] License.  If you do not delete
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."

     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]

---

		GNU Free Documentation License
		  Version 1.2, November 2002


 Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.
Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way
to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible
for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.


1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be
distributed under the terms of this License.  Such a notice grants a
world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that
work under the conditions stated herein.  The "Document", below,
refers to any such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a
licensee, and is addressed as "you".  You accept the license if you
copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission
under copyright law.

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
modifications and/or translated into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject
(or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
within that overall subject.  (Thus, if the Document is in part a
textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
that says that the Document is released under this License.  If a
section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not
allowed to be designated as Invariant.  The Document may contain zero
Invariant Sections.  If the Document does not identify any Invariant
Sections then there are none.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.  A Front-Cover Text may
be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
represented in a format whose specification is available to the
general public, that is suitable for revising the document
straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart
or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.
An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount
of text.  A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification.  Examples of
transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG.  Opaque formats
include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by
proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word
processors for output purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose
title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following
text that translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ stands for a
specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements",
"Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".)  To "Preserve the Title"
of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a
section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.

The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which
states that this License applies to the Document.  These Warranty
Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this
License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has
no effect on the meaning of this License.


2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
you may publicly display copies.


3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have
printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the
copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
as verbatim copying in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
a computer-network location from which the general network-using
public has access to download using public-standard network protocols
a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material.
If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure
that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated
location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an
Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that
edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.


4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
   from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions
   (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section
   of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version
   if the original publisher of that version gives permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
   responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
   Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
   Document (all of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five),
   unless they release you from this requirement.
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
   Modified Version, as the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
   adjacent to the other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
   giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
   terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
   and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add
   to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
   publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
   there is no section Entitled "History" in the Document, create one
   stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
   given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
   Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
   public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise
   the network locations given in the Document for previous versions
   it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.
   You may omit a network location for a work that was published at
   least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
   publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
   Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all
   the substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
   and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
   unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
   or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
   may not be included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements"
   or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.

You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.


5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History"
in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled
"History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements",
and any sections Entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
Entitled "Endorsements".


6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.


7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright
resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights
of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit.
When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not
apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves
derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of
the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form.
Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole
aggregate.


8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include
the original English version of this License and the original versions
of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a disagreement between
the translation and the original version of this License or a notice
or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.

If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
"Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve
its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual
title.


9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.


10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.


ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and
license notices just after the title page:

    Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
    or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
    with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
    A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
    Free Documentation License".

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts,
replace the "with...Texts." line with this:

    with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
    Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
to permit their use in free software.

----

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. TO THE EXTENT THIS LICENSE MAY BE CONSIDERED TO BE A CONTRACT, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions

   1. "Adaptation" means a work based upon the Work, or upon the Work and other pre-existing works, such as a translation, adaptation, derivative work, arrangement of music or other alterations of a literary or artistic work, or phonogram or performance and includes cinematographic adaptations or any other form in which the Work may be recast, transformed, or adapted including in any form recognizably derived from the original, except that a work that constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation for the purpose of this License. For the avoidance of doubt, where the Work is a musical work, performance or phonogram, the synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a moving image ("synching") will be considered an Adaptation for the purpose of this License.
   2. "Collection" means a collection of literary or artistic works, such as encyclopedias and anthologies, or performances, phonograms or broadcasts, or other works or subject matter other than works listed in Section 1(f) below, which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute intellectual creations, in which the Work is included in its entirety in unmodified form along with one or more other contributions, each constituting separate and independent works in themselves, which together are assembled into a collective whole. A work that constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation (as defined below) for the purposes of this License.
   3. "Creative Commons Compatible License" means a license that is listed at http://creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses that has been approved by Creative Commons as being essentially equivalent to this License, including, at a minimum, because that license: (i) contains terms that have the same purpose, meaning and effect as the License Elements of this License; and, (ii) explicitly permits the relicensing of adaptations of works made available under that license under this License or a Creative Commons jurisdiction license with the same License Elements as this License.
   4. "Distribute" means to make available to the public the original and copies of the Work or Adaptation, as appropriate, through sale or other transfer of ownership.
   5. "License Elements" means the following high-level license attributes as selected by Licensor and indicated in the title of this License: Attribution, ShareAlike.
   6. "Licensor" means the individual, individuals, entity or entities that offer(s) the Work under the terms of this License.
   7. "Original Author" means, in the case of a literary or artistic work, the individual, individuals, entity or entities who created the Work or if no individual or entity can be identified, the publisher; and in addition (i) in the case of a performance the actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other persons who act, sing, deliver, declaim, play in, interpret or otherwise perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore; (ii) in the case of a phonogram the producer being the person or legal entity who first fixes the sounds of a performance or other sounds; and, (iii) in the case of broadcasts, the organization that transmits the broadcast.
   8. "Work" means the literary and/or artistic work offered under the terms of this License including without limitation any production in the literary, scientific and artistic domain, whatever may be the mode or form of its expression including digital form, such as a book, pamphlet and other writing; a lecture, address, sermon or other work of the same nature; a dramatic or dramatico-musical work; a choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show; a musical composition with or without words; a cinematographic work to which are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to cinematography; a work of drawing, painting, architecture, sculpture, engraving or lithography; a photographic work to which are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to photography; a work of applied art; an illustration, map, plan, sketch or three-dimensional work relative to geography, topography, architecture or science; a performance; a broadcast; a phonogram; a compilation of data to the extent it is protected as a copyrightable work; or a work performed by a variety or circus performer to the extent it is not otherwise considered a literary or artistic work.
   9. "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this License who has not previously violated the terms of this License with respect to the Work, or who has received express permission from the Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite a previous violation.
  10. "Publicly Perform" means to perform public recitations of the Work and to communicate to the public those public recitations, by any means or process, including by wire or wireless means or public digital performances; to make available to the public Works in such a way that members of the public may access these Works from a place and at a place individually chosen by them; to perform the Work to the public by any means or process and the communication to the public of the performances of the Work, including by public digital performance; to broadcast and rebroadcast the Work by any means including signs, sounds or images.
  11. "Reproduce" means to make copies of the Work by any means including without limitation by sound or visual recordings and the right of fixation and reproducing fixations of the Work, including storage of a protected performance or phonogram in digital form or other electronic medium.

2. Fair Dealing Rights. Nothing in this License is intended to reduce, limit, or restrict any uses free from copyright or rights arising from limitations or exceptions that are provided for in connection with the copyright protection under copyright law or other applicable laws.

3. License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright) license to exercise the rights in the Work as stated below:

   1. to Reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more Collections, and to Reproduce the Work as incorporated in the Collections;
   2. to create and Reproduce Adaptations provided that any such Adaptation, including any translation in any medium, takes reasonable steps to clearly label, demarcate or otherwise identify that changes were made to the original Work. For example, a translation could be marked "The original work was translated from English to Spanish," or a modification could indicate "The original work has been modified.";
   3. to Distribute and Publicly Perform the Work including as incorporated in Collections; and,
   4. to Distribute and Publicly Perform Adaptations.
   5.

      For the avoidance of doubt:
         1. Non-waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory licensing scheme cannot be waived, the Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect such royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License;
         2. Waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory licensing scheme can be waived, the Licensor waives the exclusive right to collect such royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License; and,
         3. Voluntary License Schemes. The Licensor waives the right to collect royalties, whether individually or, in the event that the Licensor is a member of a collecting society that administers voluntary licensing schemes, via that society, from any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License.

The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make such modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other media and formats. Subject to Section 8(f), all rights not expressly granted by Licensor are hereby reserved.

4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made subject to and limited by the following restrictions:

   1. You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of, or the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) for, this License with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly Perform. You may not offer or impose any terms on the Work that restrict the terms of this License or the ability of the recipient of the Work to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. You may not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of warranties with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly Perform. When You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work, You may not impose any effective technological measures on the Work that restrict the ability of a recipient of the Work from You to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collection, but this does not require the Collection apart from the Work itself to be made subject to the terms of this License. If You create a Collection, upon notice from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Collection any credit as required by Section 4(c), as requested. If You create an Adaptation, upon notice from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Adaptation any credit as required by Section 4(c), as requested.
   2. You may Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation only under the terms of: (i) this License; (ii) a later version of this License with the same License Elements as this License; (iii) a Creative Commons jurisdiction license (either this or a later license version) that contains the same License Elements as this License (e.g., Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 US)); (iv) a Creative Commons Compatible License. If you license the Adaptation under one of the licenses mentioned in (iv), you must comply with the terms of that license. If you license the Adaptation under the terms of any of the licenses mentioned in (i), (ii) or (iii) (the "Applicable License"), you must comply with the terms of the Applicable License generally and the following provisions: (I) You must include a copy of, or the URI for, the Applicable License with every copy of each Adaptation You Distribute or Publicly Perform; (II) You may not offer or impose any terms on the Adaptation that restrict the terms of the Applicable License or the ability of the recipient of the Adaptation to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the Applicable License; (III) You must keep intact all notices that refer to the Applicable License and to the disclaimer of warranties with every copy of the Work as included in the Adaptation You Distribute or Publicly Perform; (IV) when You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Adaptation, You may not impose any effective technological measures on the Adaptation that restrict the ability of a recipient of the Adaptation from You to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the Applicable License. This Section 4(b) applies to the Adaptation as incorporated in a Collection, but this does not require the Collection apart from the Adaptation itself to be made subject to the terms of the Applicable License.
   3. If You Distribute, or Publicly Perform the Work or any Adaptations or Collections, You must, unless a request has been made pursuant to Section 4(a), keep intact all copyright notices for the Work and provide, reasonable to the medium or means You are utilizing: (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if applicable) if supplied, and/or if the Original Author and/or Licensor designate another party or parties (e.g., a sponsor institute, publishing entity, journal) for attribution ("Attribution Parties") in Licensor's copyright notice, terms of service or by other reasonable means, the name of such party or parties; (ii) the title of the Work if supplied; (iii) to the extent reasonably practicable, the URI, if any, that Licensor specifies to be associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to the copyright notice or licensing information for the Work; and (iv) , consistent with Ssection 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a credit identifying the use of the Work in the Adaptation (e.g., "French translation of the Work by Original Author," or "Screenplay based on original Work by Original Author"). The credit required by this Section 4(c) may be implemented in any reasonable manner; provided, however, that in the case of a Adaptation or Collection, at a minimum such credit will appear, if a credit for all contributing authors of the Adaptation or Collection appears, then as part of these credits and in a manner at least as prominent as the credits for the other contributing authors. For the avoidance of doubt, You may only use the credit required by this Section for the purpose of attribution in the manner set out above and, by exercising Your rights under this License, You may not implicitly or explicitly assert or imply any connection with, sponsorship or endorsement by the Original Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties, as appropriate, of You or Your use of the Work, without the separate, express prior written permission of the Original Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties.
   4. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Licensor or as may be otherwise permitted by applicable law, if You Reproduce, Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work either by itself or as part of any Adaptations or Collections, You must not distort, mutilate, modify or take other derogatory action in relation to the Work which would be prejudicial to the Original Author's honor or reputation. Licensor agrees that in those jurisdictions (e.g. Japan), in which any exercise of the right granted in Section 3(b) of this License (the right to make Adaptations) would be deemed to be a distortion, mutilation, modification or other derogatory action prejudicial to the Original Author's honor and reputation, the Licensor will waive or not assert, as appropriate, this Section, to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable national law, to enable You to reasonably exercise Your right under Section 3(b) of this License (right to make Adaptations) but not otherwise.

5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTIBILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation on Liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination

   1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License. Individuals or entities who have received Adaptations or Collections from You under this License, however, will not have their licenses terminated provided such individuals or entities remain in full compliance with those licenses. Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.
   2. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in the Work). Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right to release the Work under different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at any time; provided, however that any such election will not serve to withdraw this License (or any other license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the terms of this License), and this License will continue in full force and effect unless terminated as stated above.

8. Miscellaneous

   1. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work or a Collection, the Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the Work on the same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under this License.
   2. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation, Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the original Work on the same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under this License.
   3. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this License, and without further action by the parties to this agreement, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.
   4. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.
   5. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Work licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or representations with respect to the Work not specified here. Licensor shall not be bound by any additional provisions that may appear in any communication from You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written agreement of the Licensor and You.
   6. The rights granted under, and the subject matter referenced, in this License were drafted utilizing the terminology of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (as amended on September 28, 1979), the Rome Convention of 1961, the WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty of 1996 and the Universal Copyright Convention (as revised on July 24, 1971). These rights and subject matter take effect in the relevant jurisdiction in which the License terms are sought to be enforced according to the corresponding provisions of the implementation of those treaty provisions in the applicable national law. If the standard suite of rights granted under applicable copyright law includes additional rights not granted under this License, such additional rights are deemed to be included in the License; this License is not intended to restrict the license of any rights under applicable law.

----

COPYRIGHTS

For FAAD2 the following license applies:

******************************************************************************
** FAAD2 - Freeware Advanced Audio (AAC) Decoder including SBR decoding
** Copyright (C) 2003-2005 M. Bakker, Nero AG, http://www.nero.com
**
** This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
** it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
** the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
** (at your option) any later version.
**
** This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
** but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
** MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
** GNU General Public License for more details.
**
** You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
** along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
** Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
**
** Any non-GPL usage of this software or parts of this software is strictly
** forbidden.
**
** The "appropriate copyright message" mentioned in section 2c of the GPLv2
** must read: "Code from FAAD2 is copyright (c) Nero AG, www.nero.com"
**
** Commercial non-GPL licensing of this software is possible.
** For more info contact Nero AG through Mpeg4AAClicense@nero.com.
******************************************************************************


Please note that the use of this software may require the payment of
patent royalties. You need to consider this issue before you start
building derivative works. We are not warranting or indemnifying you in
any way for patent royalities! YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR OWN
ACTIONS!

----

Copyright © 2008-2010 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright © 2008 Red Hat, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

----

There has been some interest in using this patch set commercially.  I am
flattered, but I'm not sure what to say here.  I know that there are some
patches that came from the ultrasnd mirrors which contained notices that
they did not wish for them to be used commercially.  Since I raided the
ultrasnd archives many years ago, I couldn't remember which ones were
covered by this, so I just flatly said that the whole set was for
non-commercial use only.  Since then, I have extracted the *.txt and read*.*
files out of all the archives and grep'd them for "commercial".  While several
of them came up as only being for non-commercial use, there are only a few in
my set to which this applies.  These are:

nearly the entire Analog drumset, drumset 25
pistol.pat
pistol2.pat     (not currently mapped in cfg files)
machgun1.pat	(not currently mapped in cfg files)

So, basicly you can not use the analog drums or the pistol files in any
commercial work.  This is out of my hands.  The rest of the patches are fully
public domain as far as I know.  It should not be hard to find another
pistol which sounds almost as good.  As for the analog drumset, just go buy
yourself a real TR808 or some other product far superior to these patches.

If you DO use this patch set in a commercial production, I'd like to hear
about it.  A free copy of the production might be nice too :)

I release these patches as "fameware".  If you use them in any non-private
way, give me credit.  These patches are not to be sold for profit (heaven
forbid).  They were free when I got them and so they shall remain.




Eric A. Welsh <ewelsh@gpc.wustl.edu>
Center for Molecular Design
Center for Computational Biology
Washington University
St. Louis, MO

----


Fin de fichier.
